# BIOMD0000000336: Model_1

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000336.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000336.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Jones1994_BloodCoagulation

This model is built based on the experimental findings described in Lawson et
al., 1994 (PMID:8083241)

This model is described in the article:

[A model for the tissue factor pathway to thrombin. II. A mathematical
simulation.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/8083242)

Jones KC, Mann KG.

J. Biol. Chem. 1994 Sep; 269(37): 23367-23373

Abstract:

A mathematical simulation of the tissue factor pathway to the generation of
thrombin has been developed using a combination of empirical, estimated, and
deduced rate constants for reactions involving the activation of factor IX, X,
V, and VIII, in the formation of thrombin, as well as rate constants for the
assembly of the coagulation enzyme complexes which involve factor VIIIa-factor
IXa (intrinsic tenase) and factor Va-Xa (prothrombinase) assembled on
phospholipid membrane. Differential equations describing the fate of each
species in the reaction were developed and solved using an interactive
procedure based upon the Runge-Kutta technique. In addition to the theoretical
considerations involving the reactions of the tissue factor pathway, a
physical constraint associated with the stability of the factor VIIIa-factor
IXa complex has been incorporated into the model based upon the empirical
observations associated with the stability of this complex. The model system
provides a realistic accounting of the fates of each of the proteins in the
coagulation reaction through a range of initiator (factor VIIa-tissue factor)
concentrations ranging from 5 pM to 5 nM. The model is responsive to
alterations in the concentrations of factor VIII, factor V, and their
respective activated species, factor VIIIa and factor Va, and overall provides
a reasonable approximation of empirical data. The computer model permits the
assessment of the reaction over a broad range of conditions and provides a
useful tool for the development and management of reaction studies.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000336](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000336).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


